today we are going to learn all about
trigonometric functions but not just any
old trigonometric functions we want to
learn the specific values of cos and
sine at 0 30 45 60 90 the five important
angles the ones that come up all the
time and it's very useful to know these
values because they come up in all of
your calculations so if you have a nice
way remembering them and knowing them
it's really really helpful
[Music]
the way I like to think about it is
considering the graph or the graphs of
signing cause we're going from nought to
90 zero degree angle to a 90 degree
angle what values do cousins sign range
between it's a maximum plus one yeah it
is yeah so got a maximum of one up here
and the minimum is gonna be between 0
and 90 oh right that was absolutely
correct however if we just considered
okay I think it about triangle oh okay
yes it's perfect and so which one starts
at 0 so fine it starts at 0 and when it
gets to 90 it's at 1 increase 2 what
yeah so sine is an increasing function
it increases all the way from 0 to 90
and as we know it's something kind of
like that cool yeah can increasing wave
shape now if we have cos cos at 0 is 1
equal to 1 and then at 90 Bobby
it's a zoo yeah so they swap places
we've gone all the way down to 0 and
it's got the same shape but just flipped
so something like that worked up better
than I expected because and we have sine
so let's remember so sine which is the
increasing function so we have the graph
of sine and cos and then we want to
think about what are the values at 30 45
and 60 the important angles the ones
that are really useful and helpful to
know and do you remember what some of
these values are some so we don't we
don't need to worry about which one's
weights at the moment just because it's
the same values of the pier so we've got
0 & 1 at the endpoints yes we got 0 and
we've got 1 and what are the values can
you member to the ones pop up don't
worry which angle is which but like what
other kind of numbers we talked about
no we do have a half there is a half
three there's a root three in there
perfect
it's a root 3/2 and then we have the
root 2/2 now it's quite tricky to
remember which one goes which angle yeah
and the way that I like to do it is we
know that they go for between 0 and 1
yes and then the way to remember the
three numbers in between they're all
divided by two and what you can do is if
you take the square root of 1 which is 1
it's just 1 but if you write it like
this you've got a nice pattern so it's
like root 1 divided by 10 root 2 divided
by 2 root 3 by 2 and these are in order
they increase in order this one's
slightly bigger slightly bigger mm-hmm
and then what we can do now is we can
actually use the graph that we have here
to fill in the table and get all of
these values right so Bobby you can have
the easy ones the end points at zero
fairly confident for which one oh yeah
[Music]
zeros Oh perfect and then for cuz we
know that it's gonna be one you know
that's what those ones are easy to
remember and we we got that we need to
know the graph anyway so we kind of know
that and then as we can see on my graph
sign ends up at 1 and cos goes down to 0
and now this is where the graph is super
helpful yeah so we know that these 3
values have to go one in each for the
sign and one in each of our cars but you
can use the shape of the graph to tell
you exactly where these must go so here
we've written them in order o by using
the the root 1 root 2 the root 3 yeah
so if sine starts at 0 does it always
increase yes it does yes so what do you
think sine of 30 is gonna be scare of 1
over 2 exactly that's gonna be the half
value I love this and then the next one
scare of 2 over 2
because it has to increase and then it
goes over to exactly and then what's
going to happen to cause mommy under
direction exactly because causes always
is decreasing always has that negative
slope so car starts at one and then we
have root 3 over 2 and then we go that's
the point they cross over so we evenly
even know where they cross because we
can see and then I've never drawn a
diagram that way in my life and then we
know it goes to the 1/2 at the end so
this is how I like to remember them the
key thing is remembering it's always 0
and 1 and then you've got your root 1
over 2 root 2 over 2 root 3 over 2 it's
like a nice pattern yeah and then it's
just once you know the shape of the
graph you actually know all the values
oh that's wonderful thank you okay can I
be an additional tattoo for you what the
graphs I think at me because how much we
we found the beauty
[Laughter]
[Music]
so I'm gonna thank you very much for
your wonderful kind of way of helping us
remember trig values for B it's great
being across with you always and having
thought about what you said regarding
the different trig values I'm kind of
remembered how we can work them out
using Python to 0 let me use two
different kind of key triangles
nevermind down here the first triangle
we are going to look at it's gone so B
and it's a right angle but if these two
sides is able to have a triangle is it
oh I saw okay and if this is minus
degrees what these two angles they have
to be the same that's we say thank you
for 45 degrees
fantastic so half of the 90 so we can
then work out because we know these two
sides what is the length of our longest
side a square plus B squared it's
described wonderful so this size here we
can work out is the square root of two
so that's one of all the sizes and so we
can use this to derive my trig values
okay so now we're going to just look at
sine and cosine so based on that you
remember what the job they're looking we
have to remember that rhyme but saw
[Music]
differently I'm old-school
good silly old Harry okay caught herring
trawling over America my mom Tom yeah I
am NOT old
yeah oh I don't know he's stealing those
things ah some of the saw represent sine
is equal to sine of the angle sine of an
angle which we have here as 45 45 is
equal to opposite divided by hypotenuse
and opposite kind of either one of these
actually is just going to be 1 over
square root of 2 okay
and like you said like you said and so
we think as well for course and so we've
got ya right so again we have cos of 45
is equal to adjacent so that's one
lesson to and as well city-owned hairy
caught our herring good herring please
see so that's condom so that we worked
out like what you should have said every
kind of proven is actually wigs look at
another triangle that helps us with our
other angles 30 degrees and 60 reason
yep so this type of trying a little bit
using look at okay so what type of
change this equilateral I think that's
right yeah
do you see monsters because all the
sides the same all the sides the same
angles they are the same so we are going
to use this to create another triangle
that has got 30 degrees as your top
angle here and then 6 to your bottom and
the line
so here we have a squared minus B
squared which is the square root of 4
take me 1 which is 3
ok so this side is the square root of 3
okay so now looks very similar to all of
the kind of values that you had which is
one small and so we're now going to
think about putting them together so now
let's look at our 30 degrees okay so we
have sine of 30 okay this is outside
what's opposite 1 1 and then I watch
uses along the side which is it's the
two wonderful and then if we then look
at sine 60 so this is our 60 so what do
you have for sine 60 our opposite is
root 3/3 okay and then our hypotenuse is
still 2 2 so sine of 30 is 1/2 which we
got and sine of 60 is square root 3 over
2 okay so we do the same for cause the
cause of 30 so if we have our 30 here
what is our adjacent that's going to be
square root of 3
okay and then we do because 6
is equal to opposite over adjacent of
our sixty one and then I was
which is - which color effects approves
the wonderful stuff that you should show
and it brings together the hallways and
libraries
[Music]
so the helpful some calcium carbonate we
are going to write on a full value of
table or food table values rather the
sign cousin tan so in start with what we
know we know sine and cos through your
wonderful work earlier some of the
values that we calculated earlier on
three
well I remember teaching you guys 0 30 0
30 45 60 90 the key ones the ones that
come up all the time
why don't we establish the 0 in the 90
world forces fine
0 0 0 0 good and the 90 was one one yes
this is like testing how much you're
listening what are we saying that any
guy can answer sorry - I was listening
yeah you're listening good yeah
I don't know because this is ascending
square root of 1 which is 1 1 square
root of 2 to 3 good and now the cosine
we start off at 1 okay finish finish on
silver okay so now because we're
descending to 2 so when you go to your
summer holiday you're always looking for
that perfect but we can actually use the
value easier how can we use the values
here to create tan tan is sine divided
by cos yes there's a ratio of actually
of these two
now he's here so here we go 0 over 1
which is 0 and here we got 1/2 over root
3 over 2 or 10 30 which is twos cancel 1
/ 3 3 yes yeah and then here we've got
root 2 over 2 divided by root 2 over 2
which is 1 there and then it's finally
gotten pin ultimately we have tan 60
just brute three-on-two
/ - now what is this these are things
that we need to
[Music]